README.md, before:

# TTS Deck Server

REST API that merges up to 70 Tabletop Simulator card images into a single deck sheet. The service caches card art in Railway Object Storage (S3-compatible) to avoid redundant downloads and returns the merged image ready for TTS import.

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- Access to a Railway project with Object Storage enabled (S3-compatible credentials)

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill the following values (Railway automatically injects the corresponding `AWS_*` variables when Object Storage is enabled):

| Variable                | Description                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PORT`                  | HTTP port (Railway injects `PORT`)                                 |
| `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL`      | Optional override for the S3-compatible endpoint (e.g. LocalStack) |
| `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`    | AWS region for the bucket                                          |
| `AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME`    | Bucket name                                                        |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Access key for the bucket                                          |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Secret key paired with the access key                              |
| `MERGE_OUTPUT_FORMAT`   | `png` (default) or `jpeg`                                          |
| `CACHE_PREFIX`          | Key prefix inside the bucket (default `cache/`)                    |
| `MAX_IMAGE_BYTES`       | Max size allowed per source image (bytes)                          |
| `FETCH_TIMEOUT_MS`      | Timeout per image download (milliseconds)                          |
| `FETCH_CONCURRENCY`     | Number of concurrent image downloads/cache lookups                 |

## Running Locally

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm dev
```

POST JSON payloads to `http://localhost:3000/merge` in the following format:

```json
[
  { "id": "<uuid>", "imageUri": "https://example.com/card-1.png" },
  { "id": "<uuid>", "imageUri": "https://example.com/card-2.png" }
]
```

Responses stream the merged image. Metadata about cache hits/misses and image dimensions is embedded in the `X-Merge-Metadata` header (base64url-encoded JSON).

Health checks are available at `GET /healthz`.

## Response Metadata

The `X-Merge-Metadata` header encodes JSON describing each merge operation:

```json
{
  "totalRequested": 70,
  "cached": ["..."],
  "downloaded": ["..."],
  "grid": { "rows": 7, "columns": 10 },
  "tile": { "width": 512, "height": 512 },
  "output": {
    "width": 5120,
    "height": 3584,
    "format": "png",
    "contentType": "image/png"
  },
  "durationMs": 124.9,
  "failures": []
}
```

`durationMs` reflects the server-side merge duration (exclusive of network transfer). `failures` lists any card IDs that could not be fetched or cached.

## Error Responses

When image retrieval fails the service returns structured JSON:

```json
{
  "message": "Failed to fetch image: https://cdn.example.com/card.png (Network timeout)",
  "source": "image_fetch",
  "code": "merge.image_fetch_failed"
}
```

- `source` indicates which subsystem failed (`image_fetch` or `image_cache`).
- `code` is machine-readable for alerting/telemetry.
- Validation errors return HTTP 422 with `code: "merge.request_invalid"` and flattened Zod issue details.

## Testing

```bash
pnpm test
```

## Building

```bash
pnpm run build
pnpm start   # serves the compiled dist/index.js
```

## Tooling & Benchmarks

- `pnpm run lint` — type-check the project with `tsc --noEmit`.
- `pnpm run benchmark:merge [iterations] [cardCount]` — run the synthetic merge benchmark (defaults: 3 iterations, 70 cards).

## Deploying to Railway

1. Enable Object Storage for the Railway project and note the generated credentials.
2. From the project directory run `railway up` (or deploy through the Railway dashboard).
3. Configure the service with the environment variables listed above (Railway will already inject `AWS_*`, `BUCKET_NAME`, and `PORT`).
4. Set the start command to `pnpm run build && pnpm start` so TypeScript compiles before booting the server.

The `/merge` endpoint will be exposed on the Railway-assigned domain once the deploy is complete.

Commit message:

Add configuration tests, improve image handling, and enhance merge functionality
- Introduced unit tests for configuration helpers to ensure correct behavior of environment variable handling and defaults.
- Updated the main application entry point to utilize the new configuration methods for fetching the port.
- Refactored S3 client initialization to use required configuration values, improving error handling for missing AWS credentials.
- Added tests for parsing merge requests with hidden images, ensuring proper handling of base64 encoded data URIs.
- Created constants for card dimensions to standardize image sizes across the application.
- Enhanced the merge request schema to validate hidden images and ensure they conform to expected formats.
- Updated merge route to handle hidden images, including validation and processing logic.
- Improved image composition logic to accommodate hidden images and ensure proper grid handling.
- Refactored image fetching and caching services to utilize configuration values directly, enhancing maintainability.
- Added tests for various merge scenarios, including handling of cached images and hidden images.

README.md, after:

# TTS Deck Server

REST API that merges up to 70 Tabletop Simulator card images into a single deck sheet. The service caches card art in Railway Object Storage (S3-compatible) to avoid redundant downloads and returns the merged image ready for TTS import.

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- Access to a Railway project with Object Storage enabled (S3-compatible credentials)

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill the following values (Railway automatically injects the corresponding `AWS_*` variables when Object Storage is enabled):

| Variable                | Description                                                        |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PORT`                  | HTTP port (Railway injects `PORT`)                                 |
| `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL`      | Optional override for the S3-compatible endpoint (e.g. LocalStack) |
| `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`    | AWS region for the bucket                                          |
| `AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME`    | Bucket name                                                        |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Access key for the bucket                                          |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Secret key paired with the access key                              |
| `MERGE_OUTPUT_FORMAT`   | `png` (default) or `jpeg`                                          |
| `CACHE_PREFIX`          | Key prefix inside the bucket (default `cache/`)                    |
| `MAX_IMAGE_BYTES`       | Max size allowed per source image (bytes)                          |
| `FETCH_TIMEOUT_MS`      | Timeout per image download (milliseconds)                          |
| `FETCH_CONCURRENCY`     | Number of concurrent image downloads/cache lookups                 |

## Running Locally

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm dev
```

POST JSON payloads to `http://localhost:3000/merge` with the following structure:

```json
{
  "cards": [
    { "id": "<uuid>", "imageUri": "https://example.com/card-1.png" },
    { "id": "<uuid>", "imageUri": "https://example.com/card-2.png" }
  ],
  "hiddenImage": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAA..."
}
```

- `cards` must contain 1–70 entries. Each `id` must be a UUID and each `imageUri` must be a valid HTTP(S) URL.
- `hiddenImage` is optional. When provided, supply a `data:` URI containing a base64-encoded PNG or JPEG. The server resizes this image to the standard card dimensions and appends it to the final composition.

For backwards compatibility the API also accepts the legacy array payload (`[{ "id": "...", "imageUri": "..." }]`), which is equivalent to omitting the `hiddenImage` field.

Responses stream the merged image. Metadata about cache hits/misses and image dimensions is embedded in the `X-Merge-Metadata` header (base64url-encoded JSON).

Health checks are available at `GET /healthz`.

## Response Metadata

The `X-Merge-Metadata` header encodes JSON describing each merge operation:

```json
{
  "totalRequested": 70,
  "cached": ["..."],
  "downloaded": ["..."],
  "grid": { "rows": 7, "columns": 10 },
  "tile": { "width": 512, "height": 512 },
  "output": {
    "width": 5120,
    "height": 3584,
    "format": "png",
    "contentType": "image/png"
  },
  "durationMs": 124.9,
  "failures": []
}
```

`durationMs` reflects the server-side merge duration (exclusive of network transfer). `failures` lists any card IDs that could not be fetched or cached.

## Error Responses

When image retrieval fails the service returns structured JSON:

```json
{
  "message": "Failed to fetch image: https://cdn.example.com/card.png (Network timeout)",
  "source": "image_fetch",
  "code": "merge.image_fetch_failed"
}
```

- `source` indicates which subsystem failed (`image_fetch` or `image_cache`).
- `code` is machine-readable for alerting/telemetry.
- Validation errors return HTTP 422 with `code: "merge.request_invalid"` and flattened Zod issue details.

## Testing

```bash
pnpm test
```

## Building

```bash
pnpm run build
pnpm start   # serves the compiled dist/index.js
```

## Tooling & Benchmarks

- `pnpm run lint` — type-check the project with `tsc --noEmit`.
- `pnpm run benchmark:merge [iterations] [cardCount]` — run the synthetic merge benchmark (defaults: 3 iterations, 70 cards).

## Deploying to Railway

1. Enable Object Storage for the Railway project and note the generated credentials.
2. From the project directory run `railway up` (or deploy through the Railway dashboard).
3. Configure the service with the environment variables listed above (Railway will already inject `AWS_*`, `BUCKET_NAME`, and `PORT`).
4. Set the start command to `pnpm run build && pnpm start` so TypeScript compiles before booting the server.

The `/merge` endpoint will be exposed on the Railway-assigned domain once the deploy is complete.
